okay good morning
everyone welcome
back I'm glad to see that some of you
have come back most of you have come
back great awesome all right so like
Tuesday we're going to spend a few
minutes going over the logistics uh to
make sure we're all on the same page and
then we'll get back to the topic we all
know and love robotics uh there was a
question here about the readings um you
can do the readings for that day uh
before before lecture you can do them
after lecture doesn't matter uh the
lecture the reading will not necessarily
prepare you for that day lecture so
before after doesn't
matter any other questions about the
syllabus things we went over on Tuesday
so when we're trying to submit a
homework assignment yes so do we make a
Reddit post if we if we already just
like have a Reddit account do we make a
Reddit post and just like throw our name
on it somewhere got it okay there's a
question about how to submit assign
ments let's talk about that I realize
it's obscenely confusing uh as usual
part of that is because of my fa uh from
my fault okay we got a lot of moving
pieces we've got bright space actually
no we've got a Google sheet everything
more or less can be found here on the
schedule or the or on bright space as
you can see here uh last Tuesday I
assigned all of the undergraduates here
assignment one as you can see this link
will take you to brightspace it should
take you to assignment one uh in
brightspace there are links in
brightspace that'll take you to Reddit
and walk you through everything you need
to do for that assignment when you
complete assignment one and all the
other assignments you will have in hand
one or more screenshots or one or more
videos in this uh in this course you're
going to show us rather than tell us
that you completed an assignment we we
are not going to look at any of your
code uh if you come to see the TA or me
and you say my code is crashing please
debug it for us uh for me we will
politely return your laptop to you we
are not in the business of debugging
your code for you we will work backward
with you from your screenshots and
videos if something shows up that is a
Miss okay so how do you show us rather
than tell us as I mentioned at the end
of every assignment you're going to
generate screenshots and YouTube videos
if or or videos if you would prefer not
to leave a digital footprint you can
upload those images and videos directly
to Bright space and not leave anything
on YouTube imager Reddit that's
perfectly fine all
good uh that's fine if you do want to
leave a digital footprint if you want to
put stuff up on Reddit imag or YouTube
that's fine as well you would uh put
stuff on imager and YouTube which
obviously generates links you would
create a Reddit post I here's my
solution to assignment one and in that
Reddit post you would put the links to
your images and videos and then finally
you take that Reddit link and embed it
back into bright
space option a option b both are fine
with us okay and so when we just put
that Reddit Link in bright space that's
the association between our name and the
post exactly because when you submit OB
all we really care about is your
submission in bright space obviously
that's non anonymized we know who it's
coming from so the reason for all the
online stuff is we can see each other's
work and com good point yeah so why why
why would you submit something online so
that everyone can see your submission
and you can see everyone else's as I
mentioned last time you're working your
way through these assignments and
ultimately a final project on your own
but I would I would encourage you to
socialize your work along the way here's
my solution to assignment I my robot
seems to be limping it's falling down
everybody else's robot uh that I see
here on Reddit is not falling down does
anybody have any suggestions I'm hoping
that you can generate a little bit of
dialogue on Reddit or whatever online
space you want to use that's perfectly
fine so there are are 64 of you taking
this course and there will be anywhere
from a dozen to several hundred people
also shadowing you just on the net
obviously all the assignments are on
Reddit I post that we're running
evolutionary robotics yet again this
spring and people will follow along at
their own pace so some of the quote
unquote students you might be
interacting with in the subreddit are
not necessarily in this course that's
why you might choose to submit your work
online but again completely
optional all
good okay a couple other housekeeping
notes um uh if you missed the first few
minutes of class on Tuesday or you are
newly enrolled in this class and you
missed Tuesday's lecture you can go back
uh and find the recording of Tuesday's
lecture and all the logistics are
described there how this course runs
yeah
okay so walking around continue to walk
around the schedule uh here's the quiz
posted for the undergraduates which I
posted uh Tuesday around midday
hopefully all of you took that quiz by
11:59 p.m. here's the quiz for The
Graduate students uh as I mentioned
here's the recording here's the reading
from last time and as you can see all of
the undergrads you're working on
assignment one some of you may have
already finished that graduate students
you should be working working on
assignments one and two which are
due uh at 11:59 p.m. this coming
Monday one additional detail about
submitting your work on bright space
which I didn't know about on Tuesday is
uh it's forcing you to upload a file my
apologies about that I see that most of
you just uploaded your screenshot or a
video that's perfectly fine we will be
very forgiving with what you submit
this week I'm hoping that when I set up
assignments uh three and four you you
don't have to upload a file you should
just be able to upload a Reddit link or
if you want to not leave a digital
footprint you should be able to directly
upload screenshots and videos we will
see I will work on that and report back
on
Tuesday okay anything else about uh the
mechanics of the course you want to talk
about okay uh let's talk about
assignment one and two itself uh for
those of you that have tackled
assignment one you might find that it's
surprisingly easy there's not a lot of
steps um in assignment one you're
installing the underlying physics engine
that we're going to be using for this
course which is called pybullet that's
it's just a publicly available physics
engine hopefully over the years we've
worked out all the installation issues
for Mac Linux uh Windows has any run
anyone run into any installation
issues a couple of people okay um so if
you're having installation issues please
please please come and see the teaching
assistant or myself as soon as possible
so we can resolve that hopefully for
most of you installation was very smooth
sailing and off you go yeah okay that's
the first part of assignment one the
second part of assignment two is now now
making sure that you did install the
install the physics engine correctly by
creating a m a minimal simulation at the
end of assignment one you should have a
window that pops up on your laptop that
shows you a virtual world that has
nothing in it except an infinite flat
plane how many people have got that far
so far most of you okay great all right
so obviously that's the foundation we
want to just make sure that we have our
physics engine up and running and
assignments 2 through 10 you're going to
be adding stuff to that simulation and
then eventually wrapping that simulation
in an evolutionary algorithm it's going
to be evolving robots in that simulator
all good okay anything else about
logistics questions comments okay so we
are going to finish lecture one uh now
and then we will move on to lecture two
a short history of AI I see that I've
already fumbled with the numbering
scheme here I will fix that after class
okay off we go okay I think this is as
far as we got uh last time uh we were
talking about the Y of evolutionary
robotics or the why of Robotics in
general why create autonomously train or
design autonomous machines one reason
for doing this is the four
RS the four not the four RS the four D's
typically we want to create robots to do
jobs that are dull
distant distant meaning on another
planet dull dirty distant and I'm
missing one of the four RS danger
Dangerous thank you those are the four
D's dangerous dull dirty and distant
okay okay so we did a little bit of the
why last time let's do a little bit of
the
what this what what this what on the
screen at the moment was one of the
questions for the quiz last time my
apologies we didn't get to it on Tuesday
okay four things generally speaking you
need if you're going to autonomously
evolve autonomous machines we obviously
need the task environment itself what
ultimately is the D what is the Environ
in which we're going to deploy a robot
to do some job obviously we need the
robot
itself that robot is an autonomous
machine it's not remote controlled which
means at every point in time our
autonomous machine regardless of whether
it's a physical robot or a virtual Robot
Operating in a virtual world is going to
be receiving sensory
information it's going to be using that
brain or that artificial neural network
like your biological neural network up
here that's going to take in sensory
information transform it somehow maybe
combine it with past experience and past
memories and then send commands to the
motors so that the robot can act that is
what allows it to be
autonomous how exactly should the
robot's brain transform sensation into
action that is a notoriously difficult
process to solve so in this course we
are not going to solve that problem
manually we're going to let an
evolutionary algorithm solve it for us
okay here's an old experiment one of my
old
experiments where you can sort of see
this evolutionary process sped
up what's the task environment here very
briefly the ground with a blue cube in
it a ground with a blue cube in it okay
not not very difficult not not very
complex that's the environment what do
you think the task is we're already
evolving this robot to do something
picking up the cube pick up the cube
right not that complicated okay so
there's the task environment you can
obviously see the robot you cannot see
its brain or its artificial neural
network but at every frame in this video
the robot is receiving sensory
information that is flowing through an
AS n inside the robot and thatn is
outputting commands to the motors which
cause the robot to move yeah so you can
see task environment see the robot can't
see its brain and you obviously can't
really see The evolutionary process I'm
showing you snapshots during this
evolutionary
process as I mentioned uh last time in a
nutshell what this evolutionary
algorithm is doing at in this experiment
is evolving not just one brain but a
population of different brains slightly
different ways in which the robot
transforms sensation into action we have
a whole stack of these brains each one
is downloaded into the virtual robot one
after the other which causes the robot
to do a bunch of different things such
as kind of pick up the block or fumble
the block for each one of those brains
that's downloaded into the robot The
evolutionary algorithm is watching the
virtual robot and assigning a score how
well does the robot do at lifting the
block the brains that cause the robot to
do a poor job of picking up the block
those brains are
deleted the surviving brains which
caused the robot to do a slightly better
job of picking up the block survived the
evolutionary algorithm randomly chooses
some of those surviving brains makes
copies of those brains and introduces
slight changes to those
brains which when those New Brains are
dropped into the robot cause the robot
to interact with its environment in a
slightly different way something like
this The evolutionary algorithm
designing the architecture of the brain
the weights of the brain or both great
question so the question is is the
evolutionary algorithm designing the
architecture of the brain how many
neurons how few neurons which synapses
connect which neurons together that's
known as the architecture of the brain
or the architecture of the neural
network or is it tuning the strength of
those synapses or those connections
between neurons do we have a fixed
architecture that we decide and the only
thing we let the evolutionary algorithm
do is Tinker with the strength of those
connections we're going to get to that
some of you have not heard these terms
before the short answer is in this video
it's the latter we have fixed the
architecture actually we I ran this
experiment years ago I set the number of
neurons inside the brain of this robot I
said which neurons are connected
together with synapses and the only
thing the evolutionary algorithm is
doing is strengthening or weakening the
C connections between these
neurons which for our purposes today has
an effect on the robot it causes it to
react to its sensory stimulation in
slightly different ways
so far so
good are you also setting like what the
what success like what parameters go
into like a successful attempt yes I am
setting what goes into a successful
attempt so obviously we're trying to
stay still at the 10,000 foot view in
this first week of the semester we're
going to spend the whole rest of this
course talking about all these four
components but it's a good question so
if we dive inside the evolutionary
algorithm which as the name implies it's
an algorithm it's just a computer
program somewhere in that computer
program is a mathematical
expression that the evolutionary
algorithm takes and applies to each one
of these short video sequences that you
see and that equation is going to result
in a single number which is how well the
robot did at picking up the block and I
wrote that success equation which is
known as a fitness function Fitness
function it's a function that takes in
the behavior of the robot and gives back
a scaler a single floating Point number
how well did the robot do it lifting the
block yes question here how long did
each attempt take how long did each
attempt take let's see so I ran this
experiment in 2008 so it's getting
pretty dated uh it was a standard
desktop machine at that time you can see
how long each attempt takes in the video
it's it's about a second half a second
for each attempt on a 2008 machine I
think it took longer to run on the
machine than it actually takes to
visualize it one of the things we're
going to talk about when we talk about
physics engines which simulate our task
environment are different ways of
measuring time when you're looking at
this video you're looking at animation
time right I could run this animation
faster
slower there's simulation time which is
how much time is passing inside the
simulation from the robot's perspective
which is a little bit
confusing simulating that short video
sequence on a laptop takes it about a
certain amount of time in wall clock
time it t it took my 2008 desktop a
certain amount of time to generate that
half second video I probably confused
most of you at this point right so
there's time from the perspective of the
the robot the time it takes the laptop
to run the simulation and the time I
choose to run the resulting
animation more questions do you think
with today's technology would be like an
instant it's way way faster you're all
going to get to this point uh I think at
about assignment four or five and you'll
see for yourself absolutely no matter
how crappy your laptop is in 2023 it's
going to run you're going to be able to
simulate something of this complexity
way faster than what you're seeing right
now okay so again in a nutshell I just
walked you through an evolutionary
algorithm simulate a whole bunch of
things evaluate how well the robots do
delete the bad ones make randomly
modified copies of the good ones what
you're seeing in this video on the left
I'm not showing you any of the bad ones
at every generation in The evolutionary
algorithm every time I repeat this
process of simulating every bot deleting
the bad ones randomly copying the good
ones that's one generation then we do it
again and again and again so what you're
seeing each half second video here
you're seeing the best brain in the
population during that generation so
what you're watching is actually
snapshots over evolutionary time where
you're seeing the the Champion the one
that has the highest floating point
value of Fitness in the population at
that time so far so good okay so what's
happening is it working looks like it's
getting better looks like it's getting
better yeah it's getting there getting
there okay what I'm going to show you in
the next video is exactly the same
experiment but we're going to speed
things up even
faster we're going to plot evolutionary
time on the horizontal axis here and I'm
going to use a big G to represent
Generations on the vertical axis I'm
going to plot Fitness which is how good
the robot is doing at grasping the
object I'm going to pause for a moment
here what you saw in the video on the
left is the champion the best robot in
the in the population in the first
generation second generation third
generation fourth generation fifth
generation it's getting better and
better Fitness is going up and up it's
getting better and better at grasping
the block until at some point and this
is some arbitrary threshold of Fitness
that I set I said once a brain evolves
that causes the robot to do the job well
enough
something's going to happen um if we
only see the best brain in each
generation is there how do you determine
like the dimin point of what a larger
population would to great question so we
could use 100 brains we could use a
population of 200 brains 300 brains and
maybe this curve Fitness would increase
faster this is a good point we'll come
back to this when we talk about
evolutionary algorithms you mentioned
diminishing right there's a diminishing
return after a while generating or
evolving a larger and larger population
of brains only gets you so much more
Fitness it's a really good point we'll
come back to that when we talk about
evolutionary algorithms for our purposes
today you've seen in this left video
that at some point the robot does a good
enough job of picking up the block and
when it does in this
experiment something changes
what happens at the the point in
evolutionary time when Fitness is
sufficiently
high the the changes get pretty small
the changes get pretty small not uh kind
of moving the block moving the block so
the code is set up the evolutionary
algorithm is set up so that when a brain
appears in the evolving population that
causes the robot to grasp and pull the
block onto its back the code makes a
change to the task environment it places
the block a little bit further away from
the
robot what do you think happens to this
particular brain that was successfully
able to lift the block when the block
was close to the robot what happens to
that brain a little less
this absolutely and you don't see this
in this video because I'm skipping ahead
so quickly
Fitness function stays the
same of all the brain that causes the
robot to grasp the object and lift it so
over this entire experiment which we
haven't finished describing yet the
fitness function stays the same it's
always the
same what is changing over evolutionary
time is the given population of brains
again we're not seeing those but those
are evolving and changing over time and
every once in a while we're also
changing the task environment question
it's not necessarily obvious that you
would want to change the task
environment is that because like that's
how we observe Evolution happening in
our world is that sort of as our as we
evolve our environment changes because
we evolve that's a fantastic question
right so if I can boil down your
question to why why did the experiment
in this case choose to put put this
additional detail into this experiment
why keep moving the block slightly
further away from the robot you can
probably guess from watching this video
on the right ultimately what we want the
robot to do which is go get the trash
can pick it up and then do something
with it right so why didn't we just
start the experiment with putting the
block really far
away we didn't do that why
not
because it would have been a harder
first lead to get it to move all that
distance rather than to get it to do
something closer to it absolutely right
I'm going to administer you I've changed
my mind I'm going to give you a final
exam in evolutionary robotics right not
a very smart thing for me to do you're
not ready for it yet right so there's an
additional twist in this experiment
which again we'll talk about uh later in
the course it's called
scaffolding
we do this all the time with our
children we make their environments easy
so they can start to learn a task and
then once they start to demonstrate
competence we make things a little bit
more difficult we put training wheels on
the bicycle and once we as parents or
caregivers see that they're getting
better at riding the bicycle take off
the training wheels so once you've kind
of move started moving the block away
and I'm sure it's going to move in other
way later does it still perform well on
like the initial that's a great that's a
great question so the one the robots
you're seeing in the right hand video if
we were to put them back in the original
environment would they do a good job and
the short answer is sometimes yes
sometimes no how might you improve this
evolutionary algorithm so that they
quote unquote don't forget they're still
good at the original thing that is a
fantastic question it is still an open
question in robotics and Ai and we'll
probably come back to that as well great
question super
difficult okay so what's happening over
here when we move the block Fitness
drops but evolution finds a new set of
brains that cause the robot to pick up
that block then we move the block again
and this is what you're
seeing tell me about the evolving
behaviors
what's going on here let's put on our
scientist
ha give me some
observations it's like always able to
grab no matter how far ahead it is yep
okay so it's doing kind of what we said
right it's able to grasp the block even
as the block moves further and further
away what it seems to be doing ising
together two activities in that attempts
to
grab it's it in this case you can
actually see the strategy that evolution
is converging on which is as you say to
chain together or connect stepping with
grasping that behavior is not specified
in the fitness function the only thing I
asked for was grab the block and lift it
onto your back it's a it's a side effect
of the evolutionary process you could re
re rewind this evolutionary type uh
evolutionary tape and evolve brains
again and you may or may not get that
specific
behavior other
observations I'm just
curious maybe this is how you drew the
graph but it seems like even when you
change the toas environment the uh
Fitness never drops back to zero oh okay
so I what I'm showing you in the video
on the right I'm sorry I should have
explained that you're only seeing the
behaviors you're seeing all the quote
unquote successful ones the ones that
got Above This Fitness threshold you're
not seeing all of these some of these do
actually drop back down to zero and it
has to kind of improve others don't drop
as as far there's some interesting Rich
evolutionary Dynamics going on but in
this first week we're hiding those
details from you um in the real world
it's sometimes like instead of survival
with is surv wasn't good enough ah okay
so like did you notice when you were
running this that like before you
reached the success parameter you would
get different ways of picking up the
block and moving and then that would
guide the rest of the iterations that's
a yes okay so that many good points in
there first point that you brought up is
that an evolutionary algorithm and
biological evolution is not an
Optimizer major rookie mistake is to
think of these processes as optimizing
meaning they find the best solution
human beings are wonderful wonderful
creatures as we all know we are not
perfect what what biological evolution
is and an evolutionary algorithm is a is
a
satisficer be good enough be good enough
to survive long enough to produce
Offspring and feed them and you're good
in this simple case be good enough to
grasp the block and lift it onto your
back this good beyond that we don't know
we don't know even in this simple
experiment what the optimal behavior is
for all we know this robot could
actually leap directly to the block and
lift it really really fast onto its back
who knows maybe that's the optimal
solution we don't know and in most
experiments we can't know
did you ever consider like penalizing
the extra movement in some ways to try
to like get rid of the like to to like
make it more efficient in its movements
great point so we could add to the
fitness function a penalty actually
minus sign we could remove we could
remove points if the robot as you
mentioned is moving
inefficiently what else could we
penalize aside from extraneous
motion taking a longer of time take a
longer amount of time to get there what
else what else is the robot doing that
in retrospect maybe we didn't want it to
do we want it to grasp and lift the
block flip it flip it okay yeah maybe
this is a very fragile scientific
instrument right we've dropped carefully
scientific instrument onto the surface
of Mars and we sent this Rover later and
it's throwing scientific instruments all
over the place right it's it's a good
way to solve the problem get the object
onto its back as quickly as possible but
in retrospect maybe not what we
wanted okay this is I would argue the
biggest problem in Ai and Robotics at
the moment it's known by different names
in this course we're going to refer to
it as perverse
instantiation The evolutionary algorithm
is instantiating what we want it to do
as a behavior
but it's in in many cases and I could
see some of you laughing which is the
point it's instantiating it in a way
perversely in many ways as you'll see
with your own evolved robots evolved
robots are like teenagers they do what
you ask them to do but in the way in
retrospect you absolutely did not want
them to do it it's hilarious when we're
watching virtual creatures not so
hilarious when we're trying to train an
autonomous vehicle to move in a densely
populated area it's also known as the
value alignment problem it's usually
known as the value alignment problem in
AI in robotics it's usually known as
perverse instantiation they generally
mean the same thing we want a robot to
obey not just what we said but the
spirit behind what we
said okay one last observation I hope I
can extract from all of you about this
video on the right what else strikes you
about this
I
don't function
of up especially in the first video the
robot kept lifting up it back right leg
okay every time it grabed and I don't
know if that would have destabilizing or
it
wasil or great question so there's a
little hitch in the back right leg is
that helping Locomotion is it hindering
and it's something that the evolutionary
algorithm just hasn't ironed out of the
locomoter gate yet there's a gazillion
of these things that pop up all the time
all that matters from The evolutionary
algorithm's point of view is that the
behavior is good
enough okay in the interest of time
you'll probably notice that there is a
diversity of solutions and again some of
them are a little bit more perverse than
others one of the uh one of the
advantages of evolutionary algorithms
compared to a lot of other AI uh optim
ization methods is diversity The
evolutionary algorithm can give you back
not just one solution to your problem
but a large number of them that are
diverse that is diversity is one
possible way to start to combat perverse
instantiation hopefully in that diverse
set of solutions there are one or a few
that do that cause the robot to do what
you wanted and in retrospect the way you
would have wanted the robot to do it
tricky thing to
do okay let's move
on okay I I interspersed uh some of
these cool videos with a little bit more
Logistics so my apologies we're going to
do a little bit more and then back to
robotics okay attendance again it's a
bit of a pain I collected data over the
years if you can't read uh if you can't
read the uh the text here that's fine
we've got percent grade on the
horizontal axis every Point here
represents a student who took this class
in 2015 16 17 and 18 for a total of 164
students the vertical axis is how many
classes they missed the higher the point
is the less time they spent uh in class
and you can see that the students that
did well tended to come to class so come
to class okay all right uh a little bit
about me um as I mentioned I actually
work in this field of evolutionary
robotics I love teaching this course
it's what I spend my time doing uh I
went to school as a computer science
undergraduate uh in Canada I went to go
work for a year and found that my happy
place was not in a cubicle so I came
back to school I did a master's degree
uh in England in a master's program
called evolutionary and adaptive systems
the acronym for this course is e a y
the easy course it is absolutely not an
easy course for the undergraduates that
are taking this class and you're
considering a master's program and if
you find anything we're talking about in
this course interesting this program
still exists I highly highly recommend
it uh I did my PhD uh for four years uh
in Switzerland uh working in a robotics
lab um thus evolutionary robotics I
spent three years after my pH HD working
in a mechanical engineering an aerospace
engineering department at Cornell where
we were developing replying some of
these evolutionary ideas to some of the
things NASA cares about and we'll come
back to that in a few weeks and I've
been here uh since 2006 okay all right I
would usually ask about you when I
started this course there were 12 of you
and we had time to go around the circle
and do that we now have 64 of you I'm
afraid we don't I hope I get to know
some of you better in office hours come
see me and let's chat expectations I ask
you a lot of questions in class I can
see that you're already very responsive
so great feedback so far Common Sense uh
you have to submit assignment one and
two bright space is forcing you to
upload a file upload a file will work
around it common sense okay as I already
mentioned last time regular but not
necessarily perfect attendance you're
going to do a lot of coding in this
class you're going to do a lot of coding
especially towards the end of this
course use GitHub teach yourself GitHub
work hard keep on top of things and
you'll be fine okay I expect
memorization of key Concepts I have
absolutely no way to enforce this
there's no closed book final exam uh I
don't think there's any need to put you
through that painful uh process do as we
go try your best to absorb the key
Concepts job interviews do tend to be
closed book a lot of the interesting and
high-paying jobs that are out there you
got to in the interview you have to
stand at the Whiteboard and talk about
what you did for example in this class
and you got to be able to Rattle off
some of these Concepts and connect them
to whatever you did in this class okay
you're going to have lots of
opportunities as you've probably figured
out to be creative in this class
especially in your final project I
expect uh at this level a lot of self-
learning if you don't know GitHub teach
yourself GitHub we're going to use a lot
of different python libraries in this
course Matt plot lib numpy
scipi uh we're not going to we're not
going to go through them in class if you
come across something you don't know
there's this thing called Google get on
Google Google it and I'm pretty sure
there'll be a thousand tutorials for you
to make your way through okay positive
attitude when working with me the Tao
fellow students goes without saying okay
I already mentioned this uh things you
cannot expect why is my program clashing
crashing I don't know you don't know um
as I just mentioned we're not going to
help you learn python or installing
software you should be able to work that
out with one exception if you're having
problems installing Pi bullet this week
come and see us and we will help you
with that yeah
okay uh okay um what you can expect from
me or the TA when you come to office out
hours we will help with specific
programming questions but we'll assume
you've kind of tried your best to figure
figure out an answer online first I
leave this example here as a historical
artifact um the first students who took
this course had to program everything in
C++ a couple years after that it was
half C++ and half python now it's all
python assuming this class still exists
5 years from now I'm sure it'll be
something completely uh different
that connects with the last thing you
can expect in this class is that there's
going to be an emphasis on Concepts
rather than specific tools programming
languages GitHub Google Drive all these
things they come and go but Core
Concepts like Evolution scaffolding
these ideas have been around for a very
long time and they will continue
probably to be around for a very long
time I do not expect you in this course
as we start moving through the course to
remember every detail of every
experiment we see that's not my point uh
that's not my goal in this course it's
to use all of these examples you're
going to see to reinforce some of the
Core Concepts in this class that we're
going to see over and over again in
different
guises okay uh conceptual issues so
there's certain conceptual issues that
might arise in in prog in coding up
these assignments that you haven't seen
before like
objectoriented uh programming for the
grad students we going to get to
differentiable physics engine starting
in week six there are some pretty hairy
conceptual things underlying some of
these things those things I love to talk
about come come to office hours and we
can discuss okay clarification about
assignments and Projects please
absolutely ask me two or three of you
already started in on assignment one
right after class on Tuesday and you
immediately found things that I did
wrong thank you for stumbling over those
things on behalf of your fellow students
I fix them as quickly as I can and send
out an announcement to the rest of the
class you can uh you can teams DM me you
can email me you can raise your hand at
the beginning of class doesn't matter
please raise any clarification issues
we'll try and ire those things out as
quickly as
possible okay we've already kind of
talked about this all of these all of
the assignments are embedded at the top
level in bright space they direct you to
Reddit you're generating images or
videos you can dump them here if you
want or and then embed them in Reddit
submit your Reddit link back in
brightspace or you can go brightspace
Reddit generate images and videos and
embed them right back in your bright
space
submission okay as promised um at
starting in week 11 everyone will get
started on a final project I'm not going
to read all of this as I said last time
you can at the end of your 10
programming Pro uh projects 10
programming assignments you can pick
some aspect of that code base and
elaborate it you could make your Fitness
function more complicated grab the block
lift it onto your back and walk as far
as you can with the block and then maybe
put it down or evolve to climb up some
steps or what have you so I put some
links to a few uh assignments a few
final projects from previous year
students uh here's a best of a highlight
[Music]
reel
to
e
okay all right turn the lights back on
all right um I I challenge you to count
the number of examples of perverse
instantiation you see in this class you
should already be on to your second hand
right at this point okay just a typical
example of the kinds of things that are
possible within four weeks of effort one
of the things um that I want even if
you're already starting to think about
final projects uh a challenge in week 11
is going to be coming up with an idea
that's doable within four
weeks few of you are going to have a
good way to estimate that come and see
me in the TA or send us a message about
what you're thinking and we'll help
calibrate that for you yeah one of the
other things I want you to remember from
that highlight reel is you're going to
have two minutes or maybe two and a half
minutes during the final exam period to
convince us
that something actually evolved the best
way to do that is to show a before and
after video here's what some random
brains cause the robot to do in your
task environment and here's what some
evolved brains cause the robot to do
hopefully most of you within about five
or six seconds could see immediately
that these particular students
evolutionary algorithms were working
that's what the TA and I are going to be
looking for in those two or two and a
half minutes that's the most important
thing okay
questions so far so good all
right okay all right now I promise I'm
done with all the logistics of the
course back to the why now we're going
to talk up till now we've been kind of
talking about the why of Robotics in
general why are we going to evolve
robots rather than to use all the other
high-powered uh machine learning
Machinery that's out there um I'm going
to show you four different reasons the
first one is that creating a controller
or a brain for a robot is a very
difficult thing to do programming a
brain for the robot so that it always
transforms sensation into action in the
right way for the robot to do whatever
it is you want it to do super super hard
now admittedly there are they do they
now exist machine learning algorithms
that are not evolutionary algorithms
that can also do this for our purposes
we're going to use Evolution to do this
just as an illustration of how hard it
is to actually program a brain for a
robot I want you to consider the nonap
robot which you see uh in the bottom
left I mentioned that I was at Cornell
before here and we were working on a
project for NASA this was one part of
that
project the non-ipad is called the nped
because it's got nine legs as you see in
the bottom left but they're non legs
nine legs that are kind of arranged in a
nonobvious
way the non-ipad is built from two
Stewart platforms here's a gif of a
Stewart platform in Action a Stewart
platform as you can see has a bottom and
a top and the bottom and the top are
connected together with 1 two 3 three
four five and the sixth is behind there
six
Pistons there at every frame of this gif
there are six numbers going to those
Pistons telling the Piston whether to
compress or
extend as those six Pistons expand and
contract they cause the upper and lower
plate to move and twist relative to one
another that's a steuart platform I
don't expect you to remember all the
details of a steart
platform we take one steart platform we
attach it end to end there's one steart
platform there's the other one and we
have the non AED each Steward platform
has six Pistons if we have two Steward
platforms that means we have 12
Pistons imagine you were in control of
the non AED we want this non-ipad to
walk from the left side of this wooden
cage to the right side side of this
wooden cage as fast as
possible let's assume that you're going
to actually manually program a
controller for this non-ipad at every
let's say one second one second two
seconds 3 seconds at every second you
got to figure out which 12 numbers to
send to those 12
Pistons I'm going to make things easier
for you you can choose either a number
you can choose either minus one which
tells that piston to compress so in this
example here um someone is written down
a matrix which tells the second piston
or the second motor attached to the
Piston to compress in the first second
and then in the second second to expand
the plus one up here tells the first
piston to extend stay extended at the
second second stay extended at second 3
four five compress at second uh the 6th
second and so on so we've simplified
things greatly for you here the brain of
this robot is a binary
Matrix okay what is
it we want the robot to move from the
left side of the wooden cage to the
right side of the wooden cage what
should the 12 Pistons
do
this is not a rhetorical question can
you do
it I feel like you might want all of the
ones like on the right to expand okay so
all the ones at the right here which for
our purposes let's assume this is the
front of the non-ipad so we want all
these six to expand okay you want those
ones to contract as the left ones expand
maybe and kind of like slink along okay
so maybe do something like a Slinky
right ex expand the front part of the
body shrink the back shrink the front
expand the back expand the front we're
going to talk about biomechanics in a
few weeks time what I think you're
describing is actually a really good
guess because it is the simplest form of
motion in the animal kingdom it's known
as
peristalsis an earthworm as it pushes
its way through the Earth the front part
of its body expands and pushes the Earth
out of the way then it sort of holds the
sides of that new tunnel with its body
shrinks its back which means since it's
anchored at the front the back part of
the earthworm comes forward the front
part contracts the back part expands the
front part extends forward and pushes
into the Earth then expands the back
part contracts and that pumping motion
is known as peristalsis a really good
solution which might potenti work for
the
nonap that peristaltic strategy was
discovered by Mother Nature a very very
long time ago and she's repurposed that
strategy many many times in many many
different species it's in you also you
also peristal not to move we use these
things to move where is peristalsis in
you is it like your intestines and stuff
down them absolutely right the moment
moment you swallow something the muscle
the muscles in your throat comp expand
and contract and push not earth out of
the way but food down into your stomach
okay bit of a digression okay great
guess as you can get as you can imagine
since there's so much lead up to this
it's not so simple as that okay here we
go I'm going to turn off the lights
again
[Music]
for
that's the best we could do by
hand that's us this is the evolutionary
[Music]
algorithm
okay there were hundreds I'm going to
turn the lights back on those were the a
few of the hundreds and hundreds of
different Gates that this uh particular
robot came up
with uh the evolution we did this
experiment in
2004 uh we couldn't run Electronics we
couldn't run everything on board the
robot so we're evolving the brains on a
laptop and then the brain would reach
through an ethernet cable to control the
12 Pistons inside the belly of the
nanopet it's a little hard to see
there's a little pressurized Air
Canister which comes from a a paint gun
paintball gun which is supplying
compressed air to the 12 Pistons uh
myself and another graduate student sat
next to this robot in its cage for 18
hours and I my job was to hit enter
every 30 seconds after the evolutionary
algorithm had tried out one brain on the
robot it's quite an experiment I still
uh still have flashbacks okay all right
so just a reminder yes question um why
is there nine legs why is there nine
legs use three of them good point hint
this is a a prototype for NASA why the
nine legs so that in a non environment
one of the things that keeps NASA
Engineers awake at night is what happens
if a Rober slips on some scree and ends
up on its back as far as we know there's
no one there to put it back on its
wheels or legs the nped in theory should
be able to roll down a pretty long slope
and no matter which way it lands it can
keep
going was there like a gyroscope on it
to deter no gyroscope no sensors this
was a very stripped down initial
prototype as I mentioned we're just The
evolutionary algorithm was evolving
matrices was evolving binary matrices
that just control how the robot moves no
sensors okay all
right okay typically speaking most
nonevolutionary
algorithms which we're going to I'm
going to uh use different synonyms for
now training algorithms things that
train the robot by the by that very verb
training it implies that the body is
fixed and the algorithm is only altering
the brain of the robot that is as I
mentioned before not what evolution does
evolution doesn't train animals or
plants with fixed body plans Mother
Nature is continuously tinkering with
body and brain we're going to see some
evolutionary algorithms in which the
evolutionary algorithm is only tinkering
with the brain the real interesting
stuff in my opinion will be towards the
end of the semester where we see
evolutionary algorithms gradually
tinkering with more and more of the body
and brain of the robot yeah okay as of
uh Monday this was probably sort of the
state-ofthe-art in autonomous robotics
this is Google's Palm eobot which has
been the beneficiary of a lot of
computational resources from Google to
train the heck out of this machine so
that it can do things like obey the
command bring me the green star uh bring
me the green
star
okay I don't know how carefully
orchestrated this video is I don't know
how close this particular robot is to a
practical reality as you can imagine the
big AI compan compies keep a lot of this
under very close that knowledge under
very close
WS what would happen if the command we
issued to this particular robot was I
think I dropped something behind the
drawers inside the cabinet can you
please look inside and see if there's
something back there I obviously cooked
this example so that the body of this
robot cannot obey from what I can see
from the video its arm and hand is too
big to get back there and its camera
which is up here he's probably not able
to do it now with enough training maybe
this robot could figure out how to go
grab a dental mirror and put it kind of
under and sort of do something like this
but what happens if the robot comes back
and says I know what you want me to do I
can't do
it imagine that robot goes and say say
that to a 3D printer and the 3D printer
prints out a little small robot the big
robot grabs that little small 3D printed
robot and drops it behind the drawers
yeah what should be the body of that
small robot so that it can get behind
the drawers and be recoverable by the
big
robot I don't know that's I my personal
opinion about where evolutionary
robotics could fit into
the future landscape of AI and Robotics
there are going to be a lot of cases I
think where it's going to be useful to
design automatically design in silico a
robot's body and train it print it and
deploy it out there into the world we'll
see to be
seen
okay again uh apologies you're going to
see a lot of my old experiments for now
here's a very old experiment of mine
where the evolution algorithm is
evolving body and brain the fitness
function is what in this
case what did I ask the evolutionary
algorithm to evolve the robots to
do dance maybe they're doing a good job
of
that walk somewhere walk somewhere walk
in which
direction into the distance away exactly
there's a bilaterally symmetric robot
the left side of its body looks like the
right side of its body but it didn't do
what we wanted it to do so it's going to
be
deleted then there are these things that
are not bilaterally symmetric the left
side of the body does not look like the
right side of the body but it is doing
what we want it to
do more perverse instantiation again
we'll talk about biomechanics one of the
good ways to move in a particular
Direction in an efficient way is to be
bilaterally symmetric the left side of
your body looks like the right side of
your body one of the fun things about
working with evolutionary algorithms is
they often ReDiscover things that mother
nature already discovered several
billion years ago things that work
sometimes the evolutionary algorithm
comes up with things that mother nature
never discovered like
Wheels we'll see some examples of that
later okay so two reasons why you might
want to uh evolve robots rather than
train them as Nate mentioned uh a couple
minutes back one of the common
approaches in AI is to fix the
architecture of the brain of the robot
the the robot has a bunch of neurons
represented by circles here and then
it's got a bunch of synapses which are
represented by these arrows connecting
these neurons together if you make these
connections stronger or weaker you alter
the way you alter the way in which
sensation is transformed into
action but how do we know that six
neurons and 1 2 3 4 5 six 7 8 how do we
know that six neurons and eight synapses
is the right architecture for the brain
of the robot short answer is we don't
know that's another non-intuitive thing
so maybe we expand the evolutionary
algorithm so it also starts to Tinker
with the AR architecture of the neural
network we're gradually expanding the
stuffo broadening the stuff that the
evolutionary algorithm can Tinker
with think about Google's palmy robot
that I just showed you no matter how
sophisticated a neural architecture we
come up with for that robot it can't
reach behind the
drawers so maybe we expand the
evolutionary algorithm further so now it
can tinker
not just with the strength of
connections between neurons it can also
Tinker with neural architecture and it
can also Tinker with body plan which is
what biological evolution does it
Tinkers with all of these things
simultaneously okay another rationale
for why we might want to evolve robots
rather than just fix their bodies and
train their brains is Mother Nature has
given us an example that Evolution can
produce very competent and generally
safe autonomous
machines okay A little detail about
evolutionary algorithms and machine
learning uh there's a lot of jargon I'm
going to try and throw as little jargon
at you as possible one of the big
challenges in robotics is lack of
supervision and here's what I mean by
that here's yet another experiment of me
trying to evolve a bipedal robot to
walk and after a few
steps after a few steps it falls over
inside uh inside the brain of that robot
where did the mistake arise why did it
fall over after six steps how do we work
backward from the behavioral failure to
identify where the problem
is um GNA guess that like it sees that
either like the gate isn't completely
correct with like walking and it makes
it less stable or that it just like you
could invalidly think that it just took
too many steps and it already achieved
the goal by taking less steps okay yeah
it's a it's a good start maybe the
evolutionary algorithm can identify
something in the gate that was wrong the
robot took too big a step and then it's
it became unstable and fell over but we
we can't stop at Behavior we have to
work backward to the cause of the
behavior the way in which the robot was
transforming sensation into action to
fix that Upstream problem so that the
next time we simulate the robot it'll
take more
steps okay in the interest of time the
answer is it's super hard to do it's
hard to go back and say this number in
the brain of the nonap was the problem
or this particular synapse should have
been slightly stronger or slightly
weaker and if it was the robot would
take more steps it's hard to have a
supervisor inside the computer it's hard
to have an actual piece of code called a
supervisor that watches problems with
the behavior and knows where the problem
is it supervises by saying fix this
super super hard problem
it's kind of an open problem it's on the
brink of being solved until it's solved
well Evolution doesn't care Evolution or
the fitness function just gives back one
number this brain caused the biped to
take seven steps this brain caused the
robot to only take six steps Evolution
doesn't know or care why this brain
produced slightly better Behavior than
this brain it just throws this brain
away and makes randomly modified copies
of this
one evolutionary algorithms require no
supervision that's another reason why
we're using an evolutionary
algorithm so far so good
okay okay we're almost done lecture one
we'll finish with this video the
interest of time I'm going to speed it
up a little
bit here's an evolution AR algorithm
that's tuning the muscul of the
body and the brain of the
robot this is a much more sophisticated
physics engine uh that we're going to be
using in this class this is just to give
you a sense for what's
possible another way to visualize the
evolutionary algorithm how progress is
being made
for
when this video came out in 2006 there
was an immediate meme that went viral
which is if ever there was a video that
summarized a case of the Mondays that
that's it okay all right all right again
my apologies we're a little bit behind
we're gon to move on we're going to
spend the next six
minutes introducing
uh starting a very short history of AI
it's fascinating subject there could be
an entire course on this so my apologies
we're going to go very fast in this
history of AI we're going to go back
we're going to start a couple centuries
in the past with kohito
ergosum who said
it I promised you there'd be some
philosophy in this class here it
is
cart you'll remember as I mentioned last
time that going forward you're going to
see a few slides in which uh there's a
prompt for you to annotate this is from
Rene decart's discourse on method it is
one of the most beautiful and subtle
arguments in all of Western thought so
I'm going to do some violence to that
subtle argument Now by boiling it down
into six bullet points in English Okay I
think therefore I am let's just say that
we could rephrase this is as do I exist
am I real hard to actually know if you
think about it but for dayart there
seemed to be something asking the
question answering the question is hard
but something if the question is there
something must be asking the question so
for Renee that thing whatever that thing
is he was is going to call it the eye
that's the thing that's asking the
question for Renee this IE was probably
the soul something like uh the soul that
for deart he could be sure he had
confidence that it existed because it's
the thing that's asking the question
that's what he could be sure of this
stuff that seems to be there that he
couldn't be so sure of so for deart
there seemed to be this division between
I and everything else including the
body this Crea this conclusion that mind
or Soul or self or I is separate from
this thing which we'll call a body is
separate is known as cartisian dualism
it basically carve these two things in
half which is also often known as the
mind problem because it causes a lot of
problems when we try and think through
these ideas what could this possibly
have to do with the class on
robotics why would we start a history of
AI
here seems an odd place to
start because we need a mind and a body
for a robot we need a mind and a body
for robot robot the fact that you
phrased the statement in that way is a
legacy of cartisian dualism right we
tend to think of I've already mention
brain and body of the robot I'm I'm
doing it
too I've mentioned already in this class
the field of Robotics and AI what
distinguishes these two
Fields body one one field AI throws away
the body I don't care about the body the
thing that really matters is this thing
robotic is say no no no no no you can't
throw away the body it matters the very
structure in the way we try and create
intelligent machines as a global Society
is fund hasn't fundamentally been
influenced and biased by cartisian
thought okay got two minutes left so
we're going to jump from 1637 to 1936
we're going to jump forward 29 9 years
hopefully for most of you we're in a
little bit more familiar
territory this is the turing machine
anybody want to Hazard a one or two
sentence description of what a touring
machine is it's a model for General
computation it's a model for General
computation what are the basic building
blocks of a touring machine there's like
a pointer a big TI and a set of
instructions excellent y three things
okay so a set of instructions which is
the tape that's the input to the turing
machine the turing machine moves over a
tape or moves the tape through itself
and reads stuff off the tape internally
cogitates and then writes stuff back
onto the tape when we think about our
own behavior we often think about
sensation coming in grinding away at
that that incoming sensory information
maybe mixing it with our past
experiences and memories and then and
producing actions as a result we are
also influenced in thinking about how we
think by
touring and the way we should go about
thinking about robots like us it's
obvious robots should take in sensory
information grind away internally on
that information and then produce
actions as a result there are other ways
to think about intelligent action this
is only one way most of us tend to fall
into this way of thinking because of our
Western inheritance this and this okay
the only point I want to make here with
this before we break is that there are
some very old ideas in Western thought
that influence the way we think about
trying to create useful and safe
machines maybe ultimately the way to
make safe and intelligent machines is to
militate against these VI
come up with new ways of approaching the
creation of intelligent machines maybe
some of these old ideas are actually
holding us back we'll come back to that
later thanks very much you have quiz
number two due at 11:59 p.m. tonight
undergraduates you're working on
assignment 1 graduate students you're
working on assignment 1 and two I'll see
you all again on Tuesday thank you